I discovered and attempted to use 5 unique online security tools, including: 'EICAR', 'VirusTotal', 'HTTP Observatory', 'Qualys SSL Labs', and 'Norton VPN'. For the evidence collection of this activity, please refer to the folder Part 1/Evidence Collection/A13.

EICAR provides test files that contains a special test string known as EICAR test files, which are used to safely test the functionality of antivirus and malware detection systems. These files are harmless but are designed to be detected as threats by security software.

'eicar.com' is an EICAR test file downloaded from EICAR.


VirusTotal is an online malware analysis platform. Users can upload files or URLs to check for potential threats. The uploaded file is scanned by multiple antivirus engines from different security vendors. Each engine analyses the file independently and reports whether it detects any malicious behaviour. The results will be presented in a report, showing how many engines flagged the file as suspicious or malicious.

'VirusTotal demo scan.png' is a screenshot of a section of the VirusTotal scan report for scanning of an EICAR test file 'eicar.com'.


HTTP Observatory is a tool that analyses a website's HTTP headers and configuration. It checks for the presence and correct implementation of security headers such as Content Security Policy (CSP) , Strict Transport Security (HSTS), and X-Frame-Options.

'HTTP Observatory scan.png' is a screenshot of a section of scan report of 'www.example.com', showing whether the security headers are implemented or missing.


Qualys SSL Labs is a platform that analyses a website's SSL/TLS configuration and gives it a security grade. Users can identify the strength of encryption, outdated protocols and misconfigurations that could expose user data.

'Qualys SSL Labs scan.png' is a screenshot showing the report for scanning 'www.uwa.edu.au', showing the website has strong encryption level.


Norton VPN is a VPN service provider. VPN (Virtual Private Network) encrypts internet traffic and routes it through a secure server, protecting user privacy and data from unauthorized access by encrypting user's data and hiding user's IP address. VPN service providers such as Norton VPN provide actual and secured VPN servers worldwide to users. Some provide extra features such as tracking protection.

'Norton VPN.png' is a picture of the subscription plan of Norton VPN.
